RevisionTopics/05-Troubleshooting.md, before:

# Evaluate cluster and node logging

## Master Node(s)

### ETCD

Usually, most etcd implementations also include etcdctl, which can aid in monitoring the state of the cluster. If you’re unsure where to find it, execute the following:

`find / -name etcdctl`

Leveraging this tool to check the cluster status:

```bash
./etcdctl cluster-health

member 17f206fd866fdab2 is healthy: got healthy result from https://master-0.etcd.cfcr.internal:2379
```

The cluster this was executed on has only one master node, hence only one result from the script. You will normally receive a response for each etcd member in the cluster.

Alternatively, leverage kubectl get componentstatuses:

```bash
kubectl get componentstatuses

NAME                 STATUS    MESSAGE             ERROR
scheduler            Healthy   ok                   
controller-manager   Healthy   ok                   
etcd-1               Healthy   {"health":"true"}    
etcd-0               Healthy   {"health":"true"} 
```

Etcd may also be running as a Pod:

```shell
kubectl logs etcd-ubuntu -n kube-system
```


### Kube-apiserver

This is dependent on the environment for which the Kubernetes platform has been installed on. For systemd based systems:

```bash
journalctl -u kube-apiserver
```
Or

```bash
cat /var/log/kube-apiserver.log
```

Or for instances where Kube-API server is running as a static pod:

```bash
kubectl logs kube-apiserver-k8s-master-03 -n kube-system
```


### Kube-Scheduler

For systemd-based systems

```bash
journalctl -u kube-scheduler
```

Or

```bash
cat /var/log/kube-scheduler.log
```

Or for instances where Kube-Scheduler is running as a static pod:

```bash
kubectl logs kube-scheduler-k8s-master-03 -n kube-system
```


### Kube-Controller-Manager

For systemd-based systems

```bash
journalctl -u kube-controller-manager
```

Or

```bash
cat /var/log/kube-controller-manager.log
```

Or for instances where Kube-controller manager is running as a static pod:

```bash
kubectl logs kube-controller-manager-k8s-master-03 -n kube-system
```


## Worker Node(s)

## CNI

Obviously this is dependent on the CNI in use for the cluster you’re working on. However, using Flannel as an example:

```bash
journalctl -u flanneld
```

If running as a pod, however:

```shell
Kubectl logs --namespace kube-system <POD-ID> -c kube-flannel
kubectl logs --namespace kube-system weave-net-pwjkj -c weave
```


### Kube-Proxy

For systemd-based systems

```shell
journalctl -u kube-proxy
```

Or

```shell
cat /var/log/kube-proxy.log
```

Or for instances where Kube-proxy manager is running as a static pod:

```bash
kubectl logs kube-proxy -n kube-system
```

### Kubelet

```shell
journalctl -u kubelet
```

Or

```shell
cat /var/log/kubelet.log
```

### Container Runtime

Similarly to the CNI, this depends on which container runtime has been deployed, but using Docker as an example:

For systemd-based systems:

```shell
journalctl -u docker.service
```

Or

```shell
cat /var/log/docker.log
```

Hint : list the contents of `etc/systemd/system `if it’s a systemd-based service (containerd.service may be here)

## Cluster Logging

At a cluster level, `kubectl get events` provides a good overview.

#  Understand how to monitor applications

This section is a bit open-ended as it highly depends on what you have deployed and the topology of an application. Typically, however, we have an application that runs as a number of inter-connected **microservices**, consequently we monitor our applications by monitoring the underlying objects that comprise it, such as:

* Pods
* Deployments 
* Services
* etc

## Manage container stdout & stderr logs

![img.png](images/logging.png)

Kubernetes handles and redirects any output generated from a containers stdout and stderr streams. These get directed through a logging driver which influences where to store these logs. Different implementations of Docker differ in exact implementation (such as RHEL's flavor of Docker) but commonly, these drivers will write to a file in json format:

```shell
root@ubuntu:~# docker info | grep "Logging Driver"
 Logging Driver: json-file
```

The location for these logs is typically `/var/log/containers` but can be tweaked. Additionally, these contain symlinks:

```shell
root@ubuntu:~# ls -la /var/log/containers/
total 44
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root   4096 Feb  8 19:18 .
drwxrwxr-x 11 root syslog 4096 Feb 12 00:00 ..
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    100 Feb  8 19:17 coredns-74ff55c5b-j4trd_kube-system_coredns-5d65324791ffcdf45d3552d875c6834f9a305c5be84b18745cb1657f784e5dd0.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_coredns-74ff55c5b-j4trd_4afbef57-5592-4edb-96af-9d17f595d160/coredns/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    100 Feb  8 19:17 coredns-74ff55c5b-wrgkr_kube-system_coredns-b2fcfa679e9725dbe601bc1a0f218121a9c44b91d7300bbb57039a4edd219991.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_coredns-74ff55c5b-wrgkr_b64ac6d5-654b-4194-b6a8-5f8aa4c3cbe2/coredns/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root     81 Feb  8 19:16 etcd-ubuntu_kube-system_etcd-fcc5bc99932f380781776baa125b6f3be035e18fcec520afb827102e2afce1cd.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_etcd-ubuntu_f608198a8b73b3cf090bd15e2823df04/etcd/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    101 Feb  8 19:16 kube-apiserver-ubuntu_kube-system_kube-apiserver-a264bbd54b7f23c8d424b0b368a48fdd1c5dcecc72fca95a460c146b2b5d85f5.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-apiserver-ubuntu_212641053a16fa2bb404ccde20f6eaf0/kube-apiserver/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    119 Feb  8 19:17 kube-controller-manager-ubuntu_kube-system_kube-controller-manager-a4ef7fe2b52272ea77f8de2da0989a9bcee757ae778fc08f1786b26b45bf13e1.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-controller-manager-ubuntu_7bbe7d37f1b2c7586237165580c2f5c3/kube-controller-manager/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    102 Feb  8 19:05 kube-flannel-ds-rfsfs_kube-system_install-cni-f8762e22fbf17925432682bdb1259a066208c62fa695d09cd6ee9b0cef3d36ba.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-flannel-ds-rfsfs_2892d4e3-e326-4b4b-90c0-396fb80863ca/install-cni/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    103 Feb  8 19:05 kube-flannel-ds-rfsfs_kube-system_kube-flannel-f96e019717814d7360e1aacd275cac121c13e0ee94cc5c93dcb35365608e6f83.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-flannel-ds-rfsfs_2892d4e3-e326-4b4b-90c0-396fb80863ca/kube-flannel/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root     96 Feb  8 19:17 kube-proxy-l52f9_kube-system_kube-proxy-bfe08cb8663b46551e8608c094194ec61d03edfa7d25a6f414c07ed6563ada89.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-proxy-l52f9_d2b73ed1-5df4-4a18-9595-20798db4f110/kube-proxy/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    101 Feb  8 19:17 kube-scheduler-ubuntu_kube-system_kube-scheduler-4a695e53684f4591ec9385d6944f7841c0329aa49be220e5af6304da281cb41a.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-scheduler-ubuntu_69cd289b4ed80ced4f95a59ff60fa102/kube-scheduler/0.log
```

# Troubleshoot application failure

This is a somewhat ambitious topic to cover as how we approach troubleshooting application failures varies by the architecture of that application, which resources/API objects we're leveraging, if the application contains logs. However, good starting points would include running things like:

* `kubectl describe <object>`
* `kubectl logs <podname>`
* `kubectl get events`

# Troubleshoot cluster component failure

Covered in "Evaluate cluster and node logging"

# Troubleshoot networking

## DNS Resolution

`Pods` and `Services` will automatically have a DNS record registered against `coredns` in the cluster, aka "A" records for IPv4 and "AAAA" for IPv6. The format of which is:

`pod-ip-address.my-namespace.pod.cluster-domain.example`
`my-svc-name.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`

Pod DNS records resolve to a single entity, even if the Pod contains multiple containers as they share the same networking space.

Service DNS records resolve to the respective service object.

Pods will automatically have their DNS resolution configured based on coredns settings. This can be validated by opening a shell to the pod and inspecting /etc/resolv.conf:

```shell
> kubectl exec -it web-server sh
kubectl exec [POD] [COMMAND] is DEPRECATED and will be removed in a future version. Use kubectl kubectl exec [POD] -- [COMMAND] instead.
/ # cat /etc/resolv.conf 
nameserver 10.43.0.10
search default.svc.cluster.local svc.cluster.local cluster.local eu-central-1.compute.internal
options ndots:5
```

`10.43.0.10` being the coredns service object:

```shell
> kubectl get svc -n kube-system 
NAME                         TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                        AGE
kube-dns                     ClusterIP   10.43.0.10      <none>        53/UDP,53/TCP,9153/TCP         16d
```

To test resolution, we can run a pod with `nslookup` to test. For the pod below:

```shell
> kubectl get po -o wide
NAME         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE     IP           NODE              NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
web-server   1/1     Running   0          2d20h   10.42.1.31   ip-172-31-36-67   <none>           <none>
```
Knowing the format of the A record:

`pod-ip-address.my-namespace.pod.cluster-domain.example`

We should be able to resolve `10-42-1-31.default.pod.cluster.local`. Tip : To determine the cluster domain, inspect the coredns configmap. Below indicating `cluster.local`.

```shell
> kubectl get cm coredns -n kube-system -o yaml
apiVersion: v1
data:
  Corefile: |
    .:53 {
        errors
        health {
          lameduck 5s
        }
        ready
        kubernetes cluster.local in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa {
```

Create a Pod with the tools required:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/admin/dns/dnsutils.yaml
```

Test lookup:

```shell
kubectl exec -i -t dnsutils -- nslookup 10-42-1-31.default.pod.cluster.local
```

```shell
> kubectl exec -i -t dnsutils -- nslookup 10-42-1-31.default.pod.cluster.local
Server:         10.43.0.10
Address:        10.43.0.10#53

Name:   10-42-1-31.default.pod.cluster.local
Address: 10.42.1.31
```

Similarly, for a service, in this case a service called `nginx-service` that resides in the default namespace:



```shell
> kubectl exec -i -t dnsutils -- nslookup nginx-service.default.svc.cluster.local
Server:         10.43.0.10
Address:        10.43.0.10#53

Name:   nginx-service.default.svc.cluster.local
Address: 10.43.0.223
```

```shell
> kubectl get svc
NAME            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
nginx-service   ClusterIP   10.43.0.223   <none>        80/TCP    9m15s
```

## CNI Issues

Mainly covered earlier in acquiring logs for the CNI. However, one issue that might occur is when a CNI is incorrectly, or not initialised. This may cause workloads to enter a `pending` status:


```shell
kubectl get po -o wide
NAME    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP       NODE     NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
nginx   0/1     Pending   0          57s   <none>   <none>   <none>           <none>
```

`kubectl describe <pod>` can help identify issues with assigning IP addresses to nodes from the CNI

## Port Checking

Similarly, with leveraging `nslookup` to validate DNS resolution in our cluster, we can lean on other tools to perform other diagnostic. All we need is a pod that has a utility like `netcat`, `telnet` etc.

Commit message:

Fixed typo and Added Deprecated comment

RevisionTopics/05-Troubleshooting.md, after:

# Evaluate cluster and node logging

## Master Node(s)

### ETCD

Usually, most etcd implementations also include etcdctl, which can aid in monitoring the state of the cluster. If you’re unsure where to find it, execute the following:

`find / -name etcdctl`

Leveraging this tool to check the cluster status:

```bash
./etcdctl cluster-health

member 17f206fd866fdab2 is healthy: got healthy result from https://master-0.etcd.cfcr.internal:2379
```

The cluster this was executed on has only one master node, hence only one result from the script. You will normally receive a response for each etcd member in the cluster.

Alternatively, leverage kubectl get componentstatuses:

```bash
kubectl get componentstatuses #ComponentStatus is deprecated in v1.19+

NAME                 STATUS    MESSAGE             ERROR
scheduler            Healthy   ok                   
controller-manager   Healthy   ok                   
etcd-1               Healthy   {"health":"true"}    
etcd-0               Healthy   {"health":"true"} 
```

Etcd may also be running as a Pod:

```shell
kubectl logs etcd-ubuntu -n kube-system
```


### Kube-apiserver

This is dependent on the environment for which the Kubernetes platform has been installed on. For systemd based systems:

```bash
journalctl -u kube-apiserver
```
Or

```bash
cat /var/log/kube-apiserver.log
```

Or for instances where Kube-API server is running as a static pod:

```bash
kubectl logs kube-apiserver-k8s-master-03 -n kube-system
```


### Kube-Scheduler

For systemd-based systems

```bash
journalctl -u kube-scheduler
```

Or

```bash
cat /var/log/kube-scheduler.log
```

Or for instances where Kube-Scheduler is running as a static pod:

```bash
kubectl logs kube-scheduler-k8s-master-03 -n kube-system
```


### Kube-Controller-Manager

For systemd-based systems

```bash
journalctl -u kube-controller-manager
```

Or

```bash
cat /var/log/kube-controller-manager.log
```

Or for instances where Kube-controller manager is running as a static pod:

```bash
kubectl logs kube-controller-manager-k8s-master-03 -n kube-system
```


## Worker Node(s)

## CNI

Obviously this is dependent on the CNI in use for the cluster you’re working on. However, using Flannel as an example:

```bash
journalctl -u flanneld
```

If running as a pod, however:

```shell
Kubectl logs --namespace kube-system <POD-ID> -c kube-flannel
kubectl logs --namespace kube-system weave-net-pwjkj -c weave
```


### Kube-Proxy

For systemd-based systems

```shell
journalctl -u kube-proxy
```

Or

```shell
cat /var/log/kube-proxy.log
```

Or for instances where Kube-proxy manager is running as a static pod:

```bash
kubectl logs kube-proxy -n kube-system
```

### Kubelet

```shell
journalctl -u kubelet
```

Or

```shell
cat /var/log/kubelet.log
```

### Container Runtime

Similarly to the CNI, this depends on which container runtime has been deployed, but using Docker as an example:

For systemd-based systems:

```shell
journalctl -u docker.service
```

Or

```shell
cat /var/log/docker.log
```

Hint : list the contents of `etc/systemd/system `if it’s a systemd-based service (containerd.service may be here)

## Cluster Logging

At a cluster level, `kubectl get events` provides a good overview.

#  Understand how to monitor applications

This section is a bit open-ended as it highly depends on what you have deployed and the topology of an application. Typically, however, we have an application that runs as a number of inter-connected **microservices**, consequently we monitor our applications by monitoring the underlying objects that comprise it, such as:

* Pods
* Deployments 
* Services
* etc

## Manage container stdout & stderr logs

![img.png](images/logging.png)

Kubernetes handles and redirects any output generated from a containers stdout and stderr streams. These get directed through a logging driver which influences where to store these logs. Different implementations of Docker differ in exact implementation (such as RHEL's flavor of Docker) but commonly, these drivers will write to a file in json format:

```shell
root@ubuntu:~# docker info | grep "Logging Driver"
 Logging Driver: json-file
```

The location for these logs is typically `/var/log/containers` but can be tweaked. Additionally, these contain symlinks:

```shell
root@ubuntu:~# ls -la /var/log/containers/
total 44
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root   4096 Feb  8 19:18 .
drwxrwxr-x 11 root syslog 4096 Feb 12 00:00 ..
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    100 Feb  8 19:17 coredns-74ff55c5b-j4trd_kube-system_coredns-5d65324791ffcdf45d3552d875c6834f9a305c5be84b18745cb1657f784e5dd0.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_coredns-74ff55c5b-j4trd_4afbef57-5592-4edb-96af-9d17f595d160/coredns/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    100 Feb  8 19:17 coredns-74ff55c5b-wrgkr_kube-system_coredns-b2fcfa679e9725dbe601bc1a0f218121a9c44b91d7300bbb57039a4edd219991.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_coredns-74ff55c5b-wrgkr_b64ac6d5-654b-4194-b6a8-5f8aa4c3cbe2/coredns/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root     81 Feb  8 19:16 etcd-ubuntu_kube-system_etcd-fcc5bc99932f380781776baa125b6f3be035e18fcec520afb827102e2afce1cd.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_etcd-ubuntu_f608198a8b73b3cf090bd15e2823df04/etcd/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    101 Feb  8 19:16 kube-apiserver-ubuntu_kube-system_kube-apiserver-a264bbd54b7f23c8d424b0b368a48fdd1c5dcecc72fca95a460c146b2b5d85f5.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-apiserver-ubuntu_212641053a16fa2bb404ccde20f6eaf0/kube-apiserver/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    119 Feb  8 19:17 kube-controller-manager-ubuntu_kube-system_kube-controller-manager-a4ef7fe2b52272ea77f8de2da0989a9bcee757ae778fc08f1786b26b45bf13e1.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-controller-manager-ubuntu_7bbe7d37f1b2c7586237165580c2f5c3/kube-controller-manager/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    102 Feb  8 19:05 kube-flannel-ds-rfsfs_kube-system_install-cni-f8762e22fbf17925432682bdb1259a066208c62fa695d09cd6ee9b0cef3d36ba.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-flannel-ds-rfsfs_2892d4e3-e326-4b4b-90c0-396fb80863ca/install-cni/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    103 Feb  8 19:05 kube-flannel-ds-rfsfs_kube-system_kube-flannel-f96e019717814d7360e1aacd275cac121c13e0ee94cc5c93dcb35365608e6f83.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-flannel-ds-rfsfs_2892d4e3-e326-4b4b-90c0-396fb80863ca/kube-flannel/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root     96 Feb  8 19:17 kube-proxy-l52f9_kube-system_kube-proxy-bfe08cb8663b46551e8608c094194ec61d03edfa7d25a6f414c07ed6563ada89.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-proxy-l52f9_d2b73ed1-5df4-4a18-9595-20798db4f110/kube-proxy/0.log
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    101 Feb  8 19:17 kube-scheduler-ubuntu_kube-system_kube-scheduler-4a695e53684f4591ec9385d6944f7841c0329aa49be220e5af6304da281cb41a.log -> /var/log/pods/kube-system_kube-scheduler-ubuntu_69cd289b4ed80ced4f95a59ff60fa102/kube-scheduler/0.log
```

# Troubleshoot application failure

This is a somewhat ambitious topic to cover as how we approach troubleshooting application failures varies by the architecture of that application, which resources/API objects we're leveraging, if the application contains logs. However, good starting points would include running things like:

* `kubectl describe <object>`
* `kubectl logs <podname>`
* `kubectl get events`

# Troubleshoot cluster component failure

Covered in "Evaluate cluster and node logging"

# Troubleshoot networking

## DNS Resolution

`Pods` and `Services` will automatically have a DNS record registered against `coredns` in the cluster, aka "A" records for IPv4 and "AAAA" for IPv6. The format of which is:

`pod-ip-address.my-namespace.pod.cluster-domain.example`
`my-svc-name.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`

Pod DNS records resolve to a single entity, even if the Pod contains multiple containers as they share the same networking space.

Service DNS records resolve to the respective service object.

Pods will automatically have their DNS resolution configured based on coredns settings. This can be validated by opening a shell to the pod and inspecting /etc/resolv.conf:

```shell
> kubectl exec -it web-server sh
kubectl exec [POD] [COMMAND] is DEPRECATED and will be removed in a future version. Use kubectl kubectl exec [POD] -- [COMMAND] instead.
/ # cat /etc/resolv.conf 
nameserver 10.43.0.10
search default.svc.cluster.local svc.cluster.local cluster.local eu-central-1.compute.internal
options ndots:5
```

`10.43.0.10` being the coredns service object:

```shell
> kubectl get svc -n kube-system 
NAME                         TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                        AGE
kube-dns                     ClusterIP   10.43.0.10      <none>        53/UDP,53/TCP,9153/TCP         16d
```

To test resolution, we can run a pod with `nslookup` to test. For the pod below:

```shell
> kubectl get po -o wide
NAME         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE     IP           NODE              NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
web-server   1/1     Running   0          2d20h   10.42.1.31   ip-172-31-36-67   <none>           <none>
```
Knowing the format of the A record:

`pod-ip-address.my-namespace.pod.cluster-domain.example`

We should be able to resolve `10-42-1-31.default.pod.cluster.local`. Tip : To determine the cluster domain, inspect the coredns configmap. Below indicating `cluster.local`.

```shell
> kubectl get cm coredns -n kube-system -o yaml
apiVersion: v1
data:
  Corefile: |
    .:53 {
        errors
        health {
          lameduck 5s
        }
        ready
        kubernetes cluster.local in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa {
```

Create a Pod with the tools required:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/admin/dns/dnsutils.yaml
```

Test lookup:

```shell
kubectl exec -i -t dnsutils -- nslookup 10-42-1-31.default.pod.cluster.local
```

```shell
> kubectl exec -i -t dnsutils -- nslookup 10-42-1-31.default.pod.cluster.local
Server:         10.43.0.10
Address:        10.43.0.10#53

Name:   10-42-1-31.default.pod.cluster.local
Address: 10.42.1.31
```

Similarly, for a service, in this case a service called `nginx-service` that resides in the default namespace:



```shell
> kubectl exec -i -t dnsutils -- nslookup nginx-service.default.svc.cluster.local
Server:         10.43.0.10
Address:        10.43.0.10#53

Name:   nginx-service.default.svc.cluster.local
Address: 10.43.0.223
```

```shell
> kubectl get svc
NAME            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
nginx-service   ClusterIP   10.43.0.223   <none>        80/TCP    9m15s
```

## CNI Issues

Mainly covered earlier in acquiring logs for the CNI. However, one issue that might occur is when a CNI is incorrectly, or not initialised. This may cause workloads to enter a `pending` status:


```shell
kubectl get po -o wide
NAME    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP       NODE     NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
nginx   0/1     Pending   0          57s   <none>   <none>   <none>           <none>
```

`kubectl describe <pod>` can help identify issues with assigning IP addresses to nodes from the CNI

## Port Checking

Similarly, with leveraging `nslookup` to validate DNS resolution in our cluster, we can lean on other tools to perform other diagnostic. All we need is a pod that has a utility like `netcat`, `telnet` etc.
